[music]
>> We started a firm basically around what
I learned in in football and said
private equity can be a place of
abundance and makes no sense cuz it
should be just transaction should be
zero sum game. You get what you get, I
get what I get, but great [music]
business, the greatest businesses are
the ones that have that
that heart, that feeling, that that
there might be other ways to make some
money, that's fine with you, but to me
that's the way to make money and make it
legacy.
>> [music]
>> There's no one quite like Steve Young.
The NFL Hall of Famer who won [music]
three Super Bowls as a scrambling lefty
quarterback is now making moves in
private [music] equity.
Alex and I caught up with him in his
office at HGGC. That's the $10 billion
firm he created almost 20 years ago.
We talked to him about ownership, risk,
and why he thinks the PE business needs
a new playbook.
All right, so Steve Young, we we often
start this show by asking people to
introduce themselves. Um, how do you
introduce yourself these days?
>> Uh,
well, mostly everything is at home. I
still have one left in high school, my
little daughter Layla, kids in college,
kids out of college, kid trying to get
people launched. And so I was like I
I would introduce myself as an
aspirational dad right now and see if I
can you know, get people launched.
>> So not three-time Super Bowl winner, you
know, MVP, Hall of Famer, co-founder of
a private equity firm, just aspirational
dad.
>> Well, I think if you have all politics
are local, right? What
>> how if things are good at home, then
things are going to be good everywhere
else. And so for me, you know, it was my
old mentor Roger Staubach who told me
when I transitioned,
you know, he said I said what do how do
you transition? He goes, you run.
And I go, run where? He goes, run
anywhere. Just get away from football
because
football will never leave you, but you
need to leave it.
>> Wow.
>> And so I thought that was great advice
because it's really true. Football never
left me, but you need to leave the thing
that's not it's over.
And I think that I don't want to drag it
around. Everyone has a dream and a lot
of dreams are, you know, my my dream is
to play football and play professional
football and you get the dream comes
true, but it is going to end. And the
day it ends, the day before it ends,
you're one of the best in the world.
Great. The next day you wake up,
that's gone.
What are you great at? And the truth is
nothing, right? I'm not great at
anything else.
>> I talk about it all the time, Steve, is
this whole idea of is not from penthouse
to penthouse. And what I mean by that is
you played for 15, 20 years and you're
in the penthouse. That doesn't mean that
you come to the business world and
you're going to be in the penthouse. Not
you don't start in the third floor or
the lobby. You actually have to start in
the basement. And humanize yourself and
have the humility to start from the
ground up just like you did in the minor
leagues in baseball or football.
And uh, that's an interesting I do have
a question for you following up on what
you just said. When you walk into
an investor meeting or a company you're
trying to buy,
I find that sometimes being an athlete,
the greater you are and even the more
famous you are, that almost works
against you. How have you have you dealt
with that at all?
>> So, it's funny. For the first 15 years
of this private equity journey, um,
I tried to avoid it.
And I almost um,
and if it came up, I was fine, but I
didn't I I wouldn't I, you know, we
don't want If it didn't come up, I was
fine with that, too.
Um, and I realized over time that it was
I was the one that was overrought about
it. I'm the one that's thinking about
it. Like, no one else
And and I think it was an investor and
I'm not going to name the investor, but
we was a big investor in one of our
funds and it was a big meet deal for us
to get them in.
And we finish and he says, "The we're at
we're done." And he goes, "Do you mind I
There's one last thing I wanted to ask
you." He's like, "Yeah." He goes, "Can
we throw me a ball? Can we go out and
have a catch?"
>> [laughter]
>> And I was like, I was taken back. I was
like, "I'm like, yeah.
We can go have a catch." And that's when
I was like, "Stop. Let's just, like I
played, it was great. If it's helpful,
if it's useful to you in some way, let's
talk about it all day long. But if it
doesn't come up, let's talk business,
cuz that's what's fun.
>> And so, let's talk business. Um,
let's talk about private equity because,
as both of you know, I love private
equity.
Um, I'm fascinated by it. But private
equity is is not for the faint of heart.
I mean, I think you would agree, Alex,
that like, you know, you and I look at
this industry together a lot. There are
a lot of easier things you could have
done.
>> Yeah.
>> Why why private equity?
>> I don't know. We we I'd go to try to
give the quick answer to that. Um, I'd
gone to law school while I played. I
went to three Super Bowls while I was in
law school in the wintertime. But it was
really around um, getting ready for the
transition.
And so, because of that, I thought I'd
be a lawyer. But then I was asked to be
on the board of PowerBar, which at the
time was a meal replacement for
marathoners out of Berkeley, California.
A guy But for me, as a young single guy,
it's like, that's not a meal
replacement, that's dinner.
>> [laughter]
>> And so, we got famously friends. He
goes, "Look, join the board." On the
board was a Warren Hellman
and Larry Sonsini,
titans of Silicon Valley.
>> Hellman, the founder of Hellman &
Friedman, and
>> And Larry Sonsini, Wilson Sonsini, a
famous law firm. And I had a buddy who
had started a business around an
algorithm that back in in the mid-90s,
you could go in and fiddle around with
the URLs in the internet. And you And he
said I figured out an algorithm that
could localize the internet. Before the
everyone's time here, you remember when
it's like, you could put in Palo Alto or
New York hammer, and you'd get a USSR
sickle. Like nothing made sense.
And so, I took it to him. I said, "Look,
this is an idea." And they realized,
"Steve, you're a businessman, you're not
a lawyer."
And so, that transition, we built a
business, and that's where I met Rich
Lawson, my long-time partner, was
building a business called found.com.
>> Wow.
>> did it while I was finishing playing,
and that's what started it. And one of
our investors was Bain Capital and Bob
Gay. And Bob saw what we were doing, and
then he sponsored us essentially
sponsored me and Rich together to start
a private equity firm, and that's how it
transitioned. And so I started
what is now HGC fifth fund, and
you know,
10 billion dollars later.
>> [laughter]
>> Here you are.
>> Here we are.
>> So Steve, I mean, if you think about 40
years ago when Henry Kravis and Steve
Schwarzman and you start Blackstone and
KKR and Carlyle with David Rubenstein,
and and so like the big top four,
the it was a very small industry.
>> Very small.
>> If you look 40 years now, you have
>> thousands and thousands,
>> market private equity firms.
>> So the competition is fierce. So when
you when it comes to imposter syndrome,
Hall of Famer, three Super Bowls, law
degree. But now you're asking investors
and institutions to invest in you and
Rich. First-time fund, former football
player.
Describe how you felt when you were in
this boardroom asking for money.
>> For early.
>> The early days. The first days.
>> You know, it was interesting. We all
agreed in 2008 that private equity was
broken.
>> Wow.
>> I'd seen enough of private equity for
eight years to say
I have that opinion, and then others
have been back in the KKR days and early
Bain days in late '80s, early '90s, that
like the middle market where the people
are, Alex. It's like across the table is
not some widget. It's you and me. Let's
work it out. We got a business size that
is is really around
it's it's not a spreadsheet spreadsheet
jockey kind of process. It's people. And
and we said we're we've lost that. And
so in 2008, we started a firm
basically around what I learned in in in
football.
Which Bill Walsh used to say, he wrote a
book, my famous Hall of Fame coach, the
score takes care of itself.
In other words, yeah, we have to return
money to you.
But that score will take care of itself
if we have those fundamental values of
partnership and the and the and and the
and the athleticism to be great partners
and use our intellect and our ability
and our and our expertise. And so I what
I had to do Alex you say as me coming
out of a
professional career and an imposter
syndrome, I need to get really smart
people around me fast.
Because I know it's not if it's about me
we're in trouble. But the imposter
syndrome sticks around.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean I still think about sometimes I
feel awkward
>> Mhm.
>> and a little out of place and I and I
think that's my own
weird insecurities and I think
in a in a weird way insecurities drove
me as a football player and in some ways
I think some of that insecurity drive me
here. Just to be completely authentic
about it. It's hard to say cuz I love to
tell you I'm the king and get out of my
way and but I think to be honest about
it the imposter syndrome is something
that
um is around and I don't know that it's
completely gone.
>> You you may not have an MBA from Harvard
and neither do I but
the MBA you got is three Super Bowls to
be in the middle of that huddle
in a pressure situation in the Super
Bowl with 150 million people watching
it's you're doing the same thing in a
boardroom, right? Sending your message,
here's the play, here's our strategy.
>> And it really is about people.
>> Mhm.
>> And if you're if you're not good at that
it does devolve. It will
you know
football is won in relationship. I mean
I got to go back to Bill Walsh. He used
to stand in front of the team the first
day of training camp and say we will I
don't care what play we call, I don't
care what defense we run, we will win
because we have shared common
experiences together and an element of
love for each other.
>> Mhm.
Wow. Powerful.
>> And I was like we all like
>> [laughter]
>> did what did he just say?
>> Yeah.
>> That's insane.
And so I go back to you know the
boardroom the things that
you you hit it hit it right on the head.
The things that I had viscerally
experienced the stuff that I went
through It's a different it's not a
field, it's not a huddle. It's but it is
the same drama.
>> Right. I I mean, I've gotten to know you
pretty well over the like you have an
ability to go pretty deep with people.
Where does that come from?
>> Maybe it's my own
uh
vulnerability that I feel to myself.
Like
if someone says I suck, I'm kind of
like, "Huh?
Oh, I wonder what Let me Let me Let me
Let me look into that. You know what I
mean?" And I think that
that vulnerability makes me interested
in what's happening around me.
And I think I watch closely. When you
play
And Alex, I don't know how you think
about baseball, but football with a
field, it's you know, there's 80,000
witnesses, there's a clock, there's a
score, there you know, there's a play
clock that you got to you got to go, you
know, and if you pay attention on the
field, the human behavior that
that happens in to you and everyone else
is the truth.
That you cannot lie. And so to me, I I
think whatever my my vulnerability or my
interest in it
just got an expert uh jolt from playing
all those years. Like I I feel like
every human behavior I see in the world
today, I can
>> You saw
>> the flaw.
>> I mean, did you have that ex- I mean,
I'm fascinated by this idea of
translation. Football's a different game
from from baseball. What What are the
things What What are the
the commonalities for you?
>> I mean, it's total transparency, right?
Cuz every time you come to the plate,
you're sitting in front of Yankee
Stadium 150,000 people. And all you got
to look at that scoreboard, it's going
to tell you what's your batting average,
what are your RBIs, home runs.
You know, everything. So, you're either
[clears throat] going to get cheered or
booed, and it's immediate. And
I think one of the advantages Steve and
I have being former athletes is we have
no problem saying, "Hey, that's my
fault. That's my fault." And we get our
butts kicked over and over over again.
In baseball, if you fail 70% of the
time, you go to the Hall of Fame.
So, you almost have a PhD in failing.
The key is do you have a master getting
back up? And I think that's
[clears throat]
we were talking a little bit about that
earlier. A lot of people in business
that all they've done is win, win, win
we're actually perfectly made for
business because
business is a sport of failure.
>> What I We got I love that because in the
way if I could get all the guys that are
out there going through that and learn
it's intuitive, right? It's what the
It's You can't get into the pros and not
have that happen to you. And if you
could just be aware, self-aware as
what's
you're It's intuitive but it's not
you're not necessarily
aware of it. And if you could become
aware of it and watch it and become it
as a as a talent you could be easily
hireable.
Like if you really
take it in and you notice it and you pay
attention to it
it it's again, it's portable. 100%
portable over into the you know, another
practice another cuz it's people.
>> All right. So, so I wanted introduce a
an on the fly segment that I'm going to
call asking for a friend cuz I really am
asking for a friend. This isn't so like
oh, that's for me. I'm actually asking
for a friend.
Steve asking for a friend,
uh if you were to say have just bought a
couple basketball teams in the last few
years.
Um you're taking on the role as an owner
for the first time. You've been an owner
of your firm. What's the best advice you
could give him?
>> Fascinating.
Um
treat
your position as
highly fireable.
Even though it's not. You get inevitably
a little lazy just cuz I'm safe.
Like I can make mistakes and you know,
and just screw up. Well, I might get
embarrassed. Someone might write a bad
article about me but I'm not
I'm not in I'm not at risk. Like I don't
I just feel like
I want to I want to
I want to walk around
without the hubris that I own the place.
>> Wow.
>> Right? I mean, it's like because and I
think people will
feel
cuz you walk around with hubris, you own
the place, everyone else is like, you
do, so I'll I'll bow, but it doesn't
make me feel like I want to go fight.
>> And and
>> Wow.
>> that's super powerful. The other thing
is
there's a
one of the best things that ever
happened to me when I was playing
I was I wasn't flailing around, I was
playing pretty well.
But
Mike Shanahan is Kyle Shanahan, the
coach of the 49ers, is his dad. He was a
great coach of the
Broncos and he played the coach of the
49ers for me.
He turned to me one day and he said, you
know, I'm a really aggressive play
caller.
And I think I spend so much time trying
to make sure that I don't put you in a
bad spot.
But you know what? I start to feel like
I'm holding you back.
So I'm going to flip the script.
And instead of holding you back, I'm
going to empower you. You take care of
me.
Instead of me, coach, take care of you.
You player, take care of me. I'm going
to call as hard and fast as I possibly
can and if you
you know, if there's a problem, you deal
with it. You And I remember feeling like
this empowerment, this feeling like
I I I mean, I can still feel it in the
back of my neck right now. It's like,
let's go do it. Let's do that. And then
what came out of it was this
acceleration. And so I guess my point is
tru
trust like empower people to run ahead.
Not by the side and not from behind, but
the
go. And I've done this in business and
especially in our firm. You're young,
you haven't done it before, well, you're
about to.
And you know what? It might cost us in
the short run,
but running out and forcing you to kind
of do hard things that are ahead of your
time,
you're going to find out and we're going
to find out really fast and then we'll
iterate.
>> Yeah.
>> And it doesn't mean that you failed.
It's just like, let's iterate, let's get
back and that and that's how you empower
people. You have to empower that my
coach empowered me.
That's what it felt like and then I was
like unstoppable. And if you can get a
team full of empowered people,
you
you can't stop them.
>> I love Thank you for that advice and
that that that really means a lot to me
and I think um
it's it's funny how much like we we
think.
>> No, I we had we talked for a few minutes
before and like we're just
we are turning to butter soon if we keep
going around the circle.
>> I you know, it's so good.
>> No, but I've love I've loved what
you I watch you on on on baseball, I
watch you in you know, a lot of
interviews and stuff. I know you're this
is rattling around your head. You're
chewing on what I'm chewing on.
>> Mhm. Mhm.
>> And that's what I appreciate.
>> Trying to figure it out every day. Quick
question for you is um
I I played for
several amazing owners. Two of them are
George Steinbrenner and Hal
Steinbrenner. They were both great, but
very different. And both had big impacts
in my life and my business life.
Talk a little bit about DeBartolo and
also Bill Walsh. What did they mean to
you and what made them so good?
>> Eddie DeBartolo is in the Pro Football
Hall of Fame as an owner.
He's in there for a lot of reasons, but
to me the main reason is he was the
first equity owner of a professional
football team for sure
that looked at the players as partners.
Everything else all I'd ever known was
I'm going to I'm going to conflate it,
but it was chattel. And so I think he
saw us
like you're my partner and we're in this
together. And I think that's the
empowerment, right? It's like I own the
team and I could it's in a drawer
somewhere. I got a piece of paper that
says I own it.
>> Right.
>> But I don't pull it. I put it in the
drawer and I don't really pull it out.
And you know what? Don't make me pull it
out. Because I want you to know that and
his question was always
I want you to be champions.
What do you need?
And so whatever it was, we'd list it and
then you know what he did?
He held us accountable.
Like, I gave you everything you needed.
Where is it?
And if we came up short, he's like, "We
didn't get it done." And so, we'd have a
little uh you know
>> There'd be a discussion.
>> a discussion. But, it was like, you talk
about empowerment, I always felt
like we were in it together.
And I mean, that's a super powerful
feeling from an owner.
>> Yeah.
>> That's unusual. And then, Bill only
accentuated that. He was somebody that
was worried in 1987, 1992. He was
worried about
uh hydration and nutrition and sleep and
mental health and and not only was the
West Coast offense ahead of He was ahead
of time in everything. They're both one
of one.
>> Yeah.
>> And how And I ran into both of them.
And that's uh it's a miracle. It's how
many athletes that I know, amazing
athletes,
that never ran into someone like that.
Either with a coach or an owner, and
really toiled
in general anonymity because they never
got to a place that could be like that.
>> And And just to chew on that, cuz I'm
obsessed with like great coaching and
great leadership. Bill Walsh I've
admired for a long time, you know,
>> back when you played.
>> He's all of that.
>> Was it that he was just a great
visionary, a great offensive mind, great
connector, EQ? What was his greatness?
>> Okay, all of that. But, I'm going to
give you I joined the team, first
meeting he's talking about love and
everything. Someone's over in the corner
with a big camera filming it.
And walking around, following down the
hall, out to the practice field. And I'm
like, what is this? You know, they doing
a museum or what you know, what is this?
Cuz he was He's already won Super Bowls.
He's like, maybe there's
I don't know, a documentary. And No, he
was
It took me some time to figure it out,
but he was
developing what was a repository, like a
physical box of everything that he was
to eq all the EQ, all the speeches, all
the installation, all the offense, all
the uh
um
you know, any you know, anything that
he'd ever done, I want it to be in a
place where I can hand it to my
assistant coaches.
Because my assistant coaches aren't
getting head coaching jobs and I want
them to thrive.
And so he handed to Mike Holmgren as he
went to Green Bay.
>> Wow.
>> He handed to Mike Shanahan as he went to
the Denver Broncos. And he handed it to
many others. And he's basically saying
at the height of his career, here's
everything that I am.
Here's all my proprietary knowledge
which is two genera- three generations
ahead of everybody. We had a tactical
advantage for 20 years. Right? And he's
handing it out.
And it and both those guys told me that
as he left as they were leaving with
this box of stuff,
uh he bought he said to them, "I'll see
you in the championship game."
And we did.
>> Yeah. Wow.
>> And then sometimes they beat us.
Like, what what are we doing? He goes,
"Steve, if we
I knew I had a tactical advantage, but I
knew it was going to be like a it's like
a glide slope. It's not going to stay
the same. It's going to it's going to
wane. So as it as it settles, if I don't
reinvent myself off of the same off of
me, then I knew if I handed it to him,
I'd be a I'd they'd sharpen my saw.
>> Right.
>> I was like,
>> Mhm.
>> that's
that's abundance.
>> A- and so
you know, I know you think a lot about
this, Steve, and and Alex does, too.
What what's the version of that that you
use in your current life? You know, what
is the spirit of abundance? What is the
focusing on the transition. What does it
look like?
>> Think about transaction. Think about the
roots of private equity are we're going
to make a deal, right? And if the and if
the deal sits as a spreadsheet in front
of you,
but there is a way to now take that as a
base of transaction and create a space
where we start to look at the full
measure of what you'd like to do and the
full measure of what we the the
restrictions and the abundance of what
we can do, and let's see if we can find
ways together. And it you have it has
it's aspirational. You have to do it
every day. You have to talk about it
every day. You have to believe it every
day. You have to go into the
relationship that way. When things get
tough, you got to remind yourself that
that's what it is. And so, I've taken
from my previous life and said private
equity can be
a place of abundance. It makes no sense
cuz it should be just transaction. It
should be zero-sum game. You get what
you get, I get what I get, but great
business, the greatest businesses, are
the ones that have that
that heart, that feeling, that that
there might be other ways to make some
money. That's fine with you, but to me,
that's the way to make money and make it
legacy.
>> As we wrap up, Steve, I I did want to
ask you and and this is very much of a
piece with what we're talking about. Uh
your dad, who I think just recently
turned 90.
>> 90.
>> Great.
>> Great. Uh great young.
One line that that you've
talked about many times that I never
forget is you told him you wanted to
play in the NFL and he said, "That's the
dream."
>> That's a wonderful dream, son. Less than
1% chance, but everyone needs a dream.
Hold on to it.
But what's the plan?
>> What's the plan?
>> So, I'll I'll I'll turn this on you now.
As you think about
this
point in your career, you know, you
you've got multiple partners now in in
this firm.
As you think about this moment for you
in this firm in in in
private equity,
what's your dream and what's the plan?
>> Uh
my dream goes back to my my children, I
think. It's like Like I really do want
to pay it forward. My dream is and I
think it you know, I asked my dad the
other day cuz he's like, "You bothered
me all my life. What's your dream?" He
told me 110.
So, I guess my I guess my dream is 110.
>> I'm sorry. What is 110?
>> 110 years old.
>> Oh. Oh, I like
>> [laughter]
>> I LOVE THAT.
>> YOU'RE NOT OLD ENOUGH TO THINK ABOUT
THAT.
>> YEAH, EXACTLY.
>> IN KNOW IN ABOUT 10 years you'll be
like, I know what 110 is.
>> Yeah, yeah, [laughter] yeah, exactly.
He's like 110% I love that. I I always
give 110%. No, 110 years. Yeah, yeah.
All right, Steve Young, uh this has been
a treat. Uh
I've been looking forward to
>> I can't wait. This is a I mean I have I
feel like you guys came to talk to me. I
can't I want more conversation with you
guys. Really.
>> Anytime you want to talk.
>> I want to stay connected to you, Alex. I
think we you and I are chewing on a lot
of the same stuff.
>> I love what you're doing. I have a
tremendous amount of respect and
admiration for
>> Yeah, me too.
>> [music]
[music]